---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E5: Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-11-22
labels:
  - MIS
---
<h1> Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a <a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2_retrospective.html">link</a> to this page for further details </h1>
Assignment 2 is a assignment where we have to further enhance our e-commerce website into a more fully developed website which can be personalized by each individual user. This would include a registration, login, and a edit registration page.
<b>
<h1> What did you learn from this assignment? </h1>
  What I had learned form this assignment is that writing code within the server.js for multiple things to work all at the same time is difficult. It is intersting to find out that if one code is messed on one line, it can have all the code after it not work properly or how it was intended at all. Not only that I also learned how to change registration data for each user. Additionally, I learned how to develop an inovice page that would give you the ifnormation on how many users are currently on that page without using cookies. The individual requirement and the code needed to be put created in the server.js file was the most fustrating thing, but it helped enforce and furhter understand how code should work with one another
<b>
<h1> Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself). </h1>
  I did not work with a partner
<b>
<h1> How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with? </h1>
  I found help when I needed it by asking Professor Port, I asked him for help regarding my issues with fixing Assignment 1 before I could go further on into Assignment 2, besides that I did majroity of the code myself with references from the lab and my previous repository. Due to my procrasination I did struggle on my IR5 and had asked classmates on how they approached it, to see what I could do for it to work with my code.
<b>
<h1> How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1? </h1>
  Developing this assignment was a bit different compared to assignment 1 because you would be focusing majority of your time in thinking about how you should code your log-in, registration, and edit registratin files in your server.js file comapred to developing and designning your website like you did in Assignment 1.
<b>
<h1> Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging
Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well? </h1>
  The % of time I spent thinking about how to do soemthing was 80% of the time, writing code was 15% of the time, and testing and debugging was 5% of the time. THe things that worked well in the project was my login and registration page, I was succesful in having it work as I intended. For what did not work well was the edit registration page, I sturggled with trying to get it to change the user data and replace the old informaiton. What I also had a hard time on was IR5 I was very fustrated on how I wante to approach it and was very lost for a while.
<b>
<h1> If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently? </h1>
If I could go back in time and do thing differently, I would probably have started sooner, I was too overconfident in thinking I would be able to compelte on time and had decided to take a bit slow with this assignment. I should have expected the 2 weeks to go back fast. I should have immediatelly created my HTML pages then focused a lot of my time into doign the server.js, but instead I was unable to do that becuase I had decided to take it slow for this Assignment.



