---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Progress in Programming Report
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-04-04
labels:
  - Learning
---
1) My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:
  My programming skills have improved in which I can read code and understand to a certain extent. Compared to when I started out, not knowing how to read code properly to understanding what objects are and how to use html to create a website. Also, if I were to look at how I did back then, I never knew how to ceate or even understand what a callback function is and what it does. I am quite proudo f how I have progressed. 
  
2) I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:
  Something I need to work on is my work ethic, what I mean is that to improve my programming skills I need to literlly code more. I need to take time out of my day besides in class to learn by myself the variety of things within things like Java Script, HTML, and CSS. Another thing I need to work on is my time management, this connects to my work ethic as well because with poor time management no work can be done to improving my programming skills. Therefore, I need to create time so I can learn more to improve my programming skills.
  
3) I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast:
  I have learned quite a bit from the WODs, I would say I can complete the WODs to a certain extent without copying the WODs, sometimes I create a typo and I get immenselly lost on what I need to do to fix it, thats when I depend on the screencast to see what error I made. Overall, even though that is one of my troubles when it comes to doing WODs I have learned things like how variables and functions work and how to loop certain things with the right script. 

4) The labs have help me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence:
  I agree that the labs have helped me learn how to code certain things, but will full confidence is something I do not believe I am at yet. I would say I am 3/4 confident that I can comeplete them without help from either the intrustor, TA, or classmates.
  
5)I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2:
  Yes, I have learned a lot from my experience of doing assignment 1, I would say that I am semi-ready to work on assignment 2. I would need to read more about assignment 2 to understand what exactly I need to work on and what programming skills I need to improve to work on it.
  
6)I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:
  I am unable to think how it can be improved at this time, but what I can say is possibly create breakout rooms for students to discuss and try and help each other, sometimes with a little push in helping each other, it could possibly help them open up to asking the instructor. This is because I have classmates from different classmates who are sometimes scared to ask questions, putting them in breakout rooms could help break the ice a little.
  
7) What helps me the most in class are (WODs, Labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, one on one help, working with classmates, etc.):
  The things that helped them ost was labs, classes, websites, and working with classmates. These are the main things that helped me when it came to me getting stuck on a certain step within either the lab or the assignment 1 project we had to do.
