---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Why I chose MIS
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-01-17
labels:
  - MIS
  - Learning
---

  I believe it was around the age of 10, my family had bought a computer for everyone in the household to use. That was start of my interest in video games to editing videos and now building computers. I have lived in Hawaii for my entire life, growing up I did not have much to really do. It was start of technology being engrossed in our daily lives as we know today, so growing up with technology advancing every single day even til this day is what peaks my interest. 
  
  I belive it was at the age of 12 that I knew that I wanted to do something in comptuers. That is also when I started to learn about vdeo games. I would go on skype calls with my friends and we would play games all day. Around the time I started highschool, I started to get interested in content creation and video editing. Over the span of my highschool life, I made variety of online friends, I would play a variety of games and edit videos of what we did in those games. A couple years ago I started to look into building my own computer, it was the most fun I ever had! When I heard people say that "building a comptuer is like adult legos" I never believed it, until I tried it myself. It really is like adult legos
  
  This all relates to why I chose MIS becuase I have always been interested in computers and how everything works, so I wanted to go into coding, but I was unsure where to start. That is when I started college, my sister had introduced me to a major within Shidler, that was MIS. When she told me about what exactly MIS is I was immeddiatelly hooked. I have always been interetsed in data and coding, so this was the perfect major for me.
 
 Additionally, I decided to retake this class because I wanted to prove to myself that I can do better and improve comapared to last time. Reflecting on the experience I had so far, MIS is a difficult major but this intensifies why I chose this major because even through all the ups and downs I still feel passionate and excited to learn and do coding.
