---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Reflection on Assignment 3
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-05-13
labels:
  - Assignments
  - Learning
---
<b> Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards) </b>
  The store that I developed is a PC Parts Store. Originally it was only a GPU store, but once we had the reqiurement to add more products, I decided to change my store into a PC Part store.
<br>

<b> Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented? </b>
  There is actually a lot more shortcomings, bugs, problems that I had experienced, to be honest, I was not able to finish assignment 3. Some of the shortcomings I found were actualyl fixing errors from assignment 2. I had a few assignment 2 errors that took me some time to fix, the two errors that gave me a hard time was "User values for full name must stay in the textbox after invalid submission (registration)" and "Multiple error messages should occur simultaneously and not only once. When putting in an invalid email, name, and password, the errors message is only for the password. It should also notify about the email and name at once.", due to referencing code from another student, I also experienced the same problems as that student, so I had to figure out how to fix it. One bug that did cause me trouble in Assignment 3 was that my values in the products were undefined, I had to ask Professor Port for help on solving my issue. 
<br>

<b> Describe what you are most proud of about your system: </b>
THe thing that I am most proud of about my system is that, the layout of how the products are positioned and the navigation bar works. I had a geuinely difficult time trying to get the navigation bar to work, in the end I did get it working, but I encountered an error which the nav bar was combining all the words together, after asking for help, I was able to fix the nav bar. Overall, though I am happy with how the nav bar and the products are displayed on my system.
<br>

<b> Describe what you are least happy with your system: </b>
What I am least happy with is my inability to have completed this assignment fully. I had an idea and a concept, I knew what I wanted my website to look like, I knew how I wanted my pages to be directed, I was unable to make that idea into reality and that is what makes me the least happiest and fustrated about this system.
<br>

<b> How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2? </b>
Looking back at assignment 2 and comparing it to assignment 3, I understood the concepts and requirements from both assignments, but implementing said requirements and concepts into asignment 3, I saw was more diffcult and confusing compared to assignment 2
<br> 

<b> When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?</b>
When I ran into a problem I would try to figure out a way to fix it the issue using the internet, I would search up the certain concept I need to fix and try to fix it on my own, if I was stuck I would contact professor Port.
<br>

<b> Describe what worked well in doing this assignment? </b>
What worked well in this assignment was that at first, the implementation of the nav bar and the adding of new products was pretty simple and I did encoutner some errors in the nav bar and the products data, but it was simple to fix, specfically the products data was easy to fix since it was just a human error I made, I had typed .png isntead of .jpg when referencing the image 
<br>

<b> Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment? </b>
What did not work well was the input of the new concepts that we had learned for assignment 3, it was very difficult for me, I understood the concepts, but I did not know how to create the code on my own
<br>

<b> What did you learn from doing this assignment? </b>
What I learned from doing this assignment is that sessions and cookies is one of the more difficult concepts for me to understand comopare to what we have learned throughout this semester. Another thing I learned is how to use the nav bar, borrowing the assignment 3 code examples and with help from the professor, I learned that creating a nav bar is easier than creating multiple pages for the code to reference to.
<br>

<b> If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change? </b>
If I could do things differently, I would probably start way earlier and email professor port every so often and if I did not understand I would devote more time into researching the concept to know how to exactly write the code for myself.
<br>

<b> Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging </b>
I spent 70% thinking on how to do something and 10% writing the code and 20% testing and debugging code
<br>

<b> Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization”) </b>
I had no team members
