---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Progress in Programming Report
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-04-04
labels:
  - Learning
---
1) Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details
  Assignemnt 2 is building off of assignment 1 in which we had to create a a website where we can buy a variety of products and select the amount of the product we want. Assignment 2 builds off of that and encourages us to create a register and log-in page that builds off of the website we just made. This writing is to reflect and write about what we have learned from doign this assignment and what we can do to make it better for our next assignment. https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2_retrospective.html
  
2) What did you learn from this assignment?
  In this assignment I learned how to create a registration page and a log-in page, now looking into the code that we had to create for the pages. I learned how to create a register page where someone can input their email and password and it would accept it. I also learned how to make the password case-sensitive. Also, I learned how to redirect the user after they input the amount of products to the log-in page, so they have to log-in to their accounts for the process of buying products to fully process and get sent to the invoice. Noty only that I also learned how to create a email format that is specific to the log-in and registration page. 
  
3) Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).
  No I did not work with a partner on this assignment.
  
4) How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?
  For help I borrowed other classmates code whenever I was not sure how to properly code a certain part. I needed help with mainly the coding for the server.js file, I was not sure how to have the quantities change after checking out the product. I looked at the lecture that the professor had recorded during the workshop and classmates code to find out how to properly write the code
  
 5)How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?
  Developing this assignment was different because we had to not only add onto our code of server.js, we had to create 3 more html pages for registering our email and password, changing our password, and login. What made this assignment different as well is that we needed to make the page redirect to the login/registration page before going straight to the invoice. Not only that we needed to add input types for emails and passwords besides just integers.
  
 6)Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging
  I spent about 25% thinking about how to do something, 50% writing code, and 25% testing and debugging
  
 7)Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?
  What worked well was the transfer of some code from assignment 1 to assignment 2, my invoice, index was easily transferred, the products_data was easy to transfer too. What overwhelmed me more than it did not work was the code for server.js, I felt like I was never confident in what I was typing that I borrowed code. Another thing that did not work well was that I was confused on how give permission to others when I turned in my assignment 2, my classmate had to help me with that part.
  
8) If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?
  One thing I would do differently is start earlier, I would probably spend a little more time customzing my UI so it would look better compared to my assignment 1. Another thing I would do differently is that when starting earlier I would look more into fully understanding the code that I am typing into my server.js
