---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E6 Evaluation Guidelines and Class Retrospective BLOG
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-12-16
labels:
  - MIS
  - Learning
---


<h1> Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards) </h1> 
<p> I created a store that sells a variety of gaming products like Consoles, Controllers, and Monitors.</p>
<br>

<h1>Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented? </h1> 
<p> The shortcomings I have is that the alert box does not display onto the webpage when quantities are empty in the products dispaly page, but it is displayed with the quantities in the query string located in the search bar. Additionally, my purchase button in my cart does not go to my invoice and invoice does not display any products. During the log-in, registration and password change paged if text boxes are empty, it will display an error stating the things that need to be changed, but there is a problem in which if the user causes the registartion text box to display when you go to the login page it will display the registration text box once, but once you log in it goes away. Exact thing happens to password change as well. Furthermroe, my IR5 (star rating) implementation is only half-finished, I was unable to fully fix the bugs that I had encountered. Cookies were not implemented fully. </p>
<br>

<h1>Describe what you are most proud of about your system: </h1> 
<p> What I am most proud of regarding my website is my shopping cart, I was able to have it display my products that had a quantity, I felt very accomplished by that, not only that I am proud of my implementation of the boxes for each product, the CSS was very difficult to implement and I was proud that I had gotten it working. Not onyl that I am proud of fixing all of my Assignmnet 2 problems that I had encoutnered.</p>
<br>

<h1>Describe what you are least happy with your system: </h1> 
<p> What I am least happy about my system is that besides the cookies not being implemented fully, it would be the star ratings, I was unable to have the star ratigns work for more than just one product box, it would highlight and it is able to be used, but the ratings only appear in the first product box no matter what I click on the other boxes.</p>
<br>

<h1>How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2? </h1> 
<p> This assignment was different than assignment 2 because this assignment felt a lot hardercompared to assignment 2, the individual concepts were mroe difficult to grasp and fully understand, I knew how certain code interacted with another, but I was never fully sure how to implement it properly without encoutnering bugs </p>
<br>

<h1>When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it? </h1> 
<p> When I encoutnered a problem I would try multiple times on my own different ways to fix the problem, but if it still did not work no matter how many times I tried, I would ask Professor Port for help. </p>
<br>

<h1>Describe what worked well in doing this assignment? </h1> 
<p> What worked well in this assingment was implementing all 3 types of products to display on the proper page and the navigation bar </p>
<br>

<h1>Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment? </h1> 
<p> What did not work well was the use of cookies and the movement of query strings or sessions from one page to another.</p>
<br>

<h1>What did you learn from doing this assignment? </h1> 
 <p> What I learned from this assignment was that after a few meetings with Professor Port, I realized that I tend to overthink my code, when I should be thinking about it slowly and to focus on one thing at a time. Also copying code is usually does nto work in your favor unless your properly study the code. </p>
 <br>
 
<h1>If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change? </h1> 
<p> I would have started sooner, not only that I sould have went to see Professor Port immediately when assignment 3 had started. </p>
<br>

<h1>Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging </h1> 
<p> For what I had finished, I believed I have spent 60% thinking, 20% writing code, and 20% debugging</p>
<br>

<h1> Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization”) </h1> 
<p>I duid not work with a partner</p>
