---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Assignment 3 checkpoint
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-05-05
labels:
  - Learning
---
1) <b> Show what each page will look like. The pages do not have to be “functional” but the design should clear. </b>
<a href=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1tR1Rdk4izg> Click Here to view the screencast. </a>
<br>

2) <b> Describe your design for your site’s shopping cart. That is, will it be a separate page that the user can view and edit, or will it be integrated into the product pages? If so, describe in detail how this will work on your site. Provide several examples of using the cart. </b>
Th shopping cart will have it's own page where you can view your order. Each Product's page will have a shopping cart where the user can click and it will redirect you to the shopping cart page. Not only that the shopping ccart will keep track of the amount that is in the cart and will be shown throughout all the products pages.
<br>

3) <b> Explain specifically how you will use sessions to manage your shopping cart. In particular, what shopping cart data will be stored in the session, what data format will be used (NOT what data type, but the format like with the data format used for your registration data). Use code examples showing what data structures (such as arrays and their objects) you will use to manage the shopping cart data and how they will be used in a session. </b>
When adding pc parts to the cart, the product items will be added to the session data as an object key. The value for multiple product type keys will be in an array format. Just like in the previous Assignments, but instead of having just one shown in an array you will have multiple products shown, the format of the item data in the session data would look like this:<br>
{ GPU: [ 1, 0, 0, 0 ], CPU: [ 0, 0, 1 ], PSU: [1, 0, 0] }
<br>

4) <b> How will you avoid access to your application when the user has not logged in or registered? What are the particular security concerns you must address? </b>
If the user is not logged in or registered, the server looks for the user's cookie, if there is none, then the user will be reidrected to the login screen to login or to register for an account. However, if the user does have a cookie, they will be redirected to the invoice to complete their purchase. The security concern I must address in this is that...
<br>

5) <b> Upon a successful login, how do you provide personalization in your UI? Explain how you did or will do this (paste code if necessary) </b>
Upon a successful login, the user's email will be shown in the invoice and the option of logging out will be available to the user as well.
<br>

6) <b> If you are working with partners, how will you split up the work in your team so that you are working in parallel as effectively as possible? That is, who is doing what and when? </b>
No Partners
<br>

7) <b> How are you approaching Assignment 3 differently than Assignment 2? </b>
The way I am approaching this differently than Ass. 2 is that I am properly planning out exactly how I want the website to direct the user, instead of panicking and doing evrything at he last second.
