---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E3 Preparing for WODs Technical Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-09-28
labels:
  - MIS
  - WODS
---
<h1>Introduction</h1>
Today in this essay I will be discussing how I prepared for the 5 <a href = https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-preparing-for-WOD.html> WOD</a> that we had to do. Furthermore I will be discussing about the challenges I had face and what I had learned from them.

<br>
  
<h2> Browser History 6 </h2>
In browser history 6 we had to use our prior wod Browser History 3 and create 3 new web pages. This WOD was very simple and quite comforting due to the simpleness of it. I did not really experience a hard time, but I believe that was thanks to reading the insturctions and practicing doing it myself before actually recording the WOD. What challenge I did encoutner during my first attempt though was that I could not get my CSS to work properly, the background did not want to change and the text was not the correct color. I had realized before starting my second attempt is that I had accidentally delted the reference code to my css file. What I learned from this WOD is that I could have taken my time on it, even though it was simple and easy, it is inevitable to make mistakes if I rush myself, I should take my own time and read each line of code thoroughly to make sure I did not forget anything.

<br>

<h2> SmartPhoneProducts with Variables </h2>
In the SmartPhoneProducts with Variables WOD, we had a more in-depth experience with using javascript variables. We used java script to further simplify coding, so isntead of hard coding everything we changed it to using variables. When changing something in a variable it changes things in the code that has the variable associated with it. Regarding preparation for this WOD I reviewed my readings regarding variables and read the instructions inlcuded in the WOD. The simple part of this assignment is copying and pasting directions from the web page, but the difficulty I had ecountered had nothing to do with what the instructions were given but my careless errors. What I mean by this is that I had to re-attempt and re-record this WOD a few times because due to my overconfidence, I had forgotten to either reference my code to my css or I had incorrectly typed my variables. What I might try differently next time is that I can be confident in what I do, but I should  remember to properly read my code.

<br>

<h2> Invoice 1 </h2>
This is where the difficulty had risen a bit. This WOD you had to create an invoice text box with calculations of the sub-total, tax rate, and total. I really enjoyed this WOD though because I really enjoy having the ability to type out code, but the problem that had occured in this WOD was that I would always mistype the document.write for the tax, total, and subtotal. There was a problem with it and I was not sure why, I had to constantly restart my attempt with this WOD, it took me about 3 tries to figure out what I had did wrong. I had mispelled tax and total in my code earlier when I was defining it. I did not doing anything differently compared to the WOD before this. What I had learned from this WOD is that when it comes to defining variables they will not tell you if it is incorrect or not because you are giving it something to be defined as, youy need to check it yourself to make sure it has the right spelling.

<br>

<h2> Invoice 2 </h2> 
In this WOD, it was a simple add on to the Invoice 1 WOD, we needed to add a shipping price to the table. This one was quite easy comapred to the last, I encoutnered no troubles and was able to complete this WOD smoothly. I did not do anything differently in this WOD comapred to the others prior. Adding the if else statement was not as difficult as I expected, but it was not as easy as I expected. What I learned from this WOD is that similar to Invoice 1 WOD spelling needs to be double checked, I had mis-spelt shipping in the if statement and had almost decided to restart because my code was not working.

<br>

<h2> SmartPhoneProducts 2 </h2>
This WOD was very very difficult for me. In this WOD we had to cretae a for loop for our products, so that we could remove the hard code that we had done to it and if we wnated to add anymore more items it would be simpler to do. What worked really well in this was transferring the variables and creating the documeent.write. What I had a hard time with was writing the for-loop, I had to do this WOD twice because I had made an error in my for-loop but I could not see where. I had figured out that I was missing a quotation mark at the end of the document.write. What I had from this WOD is that remember to take things step by step and to not rush the process, read very thoroughly.

<br>

<h2> Conclusion </h2>
Overall these 5 WODs had taught me the difficulties and the simple parts of coding and how even the most simple mistake like a quotation mark or a comma could cause your entire code to not work at all. Furthermore, it feels wonderful to be able to finish these in a proper time limit, but I believe I can do even better with practice to ensure my success in the upcoming WODs.
