---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E4 Progress in Programming Report
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-11-08
labels:
  - MIS
---
<b> My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways: </b>
<p>
The programming lnagugaes that I believed have improved from the time I started coding this semester to now is my HTML and CSS. Within Assignment 1 we had to use code from prior WODs to create our pages for our Assignment, but we needed to change it so it would be our own creation. We were suggested to use a template from W3 schools, but I had decided to create my own using CSS bootstrap, this was becuase I wanted to challenge myself in creting my website fro mscratch. I had a hard time using CSS because sometimes it would mess with my code and there would be bordered within borders for my products. It was so fustrating, I had decided to go through each line of code and find out what was causing the problem. I had narrowed it dow nto my for loop that was causign the issue with my CSS, so I had to figure out which part of my for loop it was, I knew my products and image for dispalying properly, but my quantity available DIV section was not, so I removed it and the CSS had dispalyed properly on the HTML. I had to rewrite my code for the particular section then it was properly placed. ANother issue I had was that my table in the inovice would not dispaly properly, I had to mess around with the size within the HTMl document and after a few trial and errors I had gotten it to work properly.
</p>

<br>

<b> I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills: </b>
<p>
What I need to improve on is my Javascript. To imporve on that I would need to constantly practice coding in Javascript, with my time invested into coding Javascript, I would be able to have a greater understanding in how to improve my code. I realized this not only from when we started doing javascript but when I had to ask Professor Port for help, I knew what I needed to do, but was unsure how to execute it, with Professor Port's help I was able to complete the code I neded fro ym process form to work in my server.js, after some reviewing of my server.js, I realized that I understood what it was doing, but I would need to put more time into coding in Javascirpt because I was cosntantly overthinking how to code something, when sometimes I just needed to write out how I wanted my code to work, I realized that writing out my thought helps me think about what I would want my code to do and how to write it.
</p>

<br>

<b> I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast: </b>
<p>
Yes, I can do majority of the WODs without copying the screencast, the WODs have helped me with learning how things such as arrays, object, if and else statements. There were times I had a hard time and had to go back and look at the screencasts. Specifically what I had learned was that constant practice of coding can help you not only understand what the code does but you would be able to do it faster. I had practiced doing some WODs multiple times before recording and I was able to get my WODs under RX time. Sometimes I did look at the screencast, but most of the time I tried to practice doing the code over and over again while talking out loud so I can see if I really do understand what is going on in my code. 
</p>

<br>

<b> The labs have help me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence: </b>
<p>
Yes, I am able to complete them but I do not believe I would say with 100% confidence. If I were to look at it myself it would take me a while but I would be able to compelte it, I would say with 80% confidence that I would be able to, the 20% would be my uncertainty in when I would encounter a challenge within the lab. If Professor Port did not go through it with us at least once I would have a hard time understanding the instructions, but if I were to do it after Professor Port wlaked it through with us I would be pretty confident that I would be able to comeplete the lab assignments.
</p>

<br>

<b> I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2: </b>
<p>
Yes and No, I have learned a lot from doing Assignment 1 and I really enjoyed it, but I still had some troubles within Assignment 1 that fustrate and that I need to fix. Once I have dealt with those issues and have completed what I was missing in Assignment 1 then I would feel like I am ready for Assignment 2. THere are some things in Assignment 2 that are very intimidating, but I know that if I take thing step by step, I will be able to compelte Assignment 2, there will be times I know that I will need help, but I feel that Assignment 2 might be a bit less stressful compared to Assignment 1.
</p>

<br>

<b> I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways: </b>
<p> 
  What I think can help improve the class is allowing class discussions between students, I believe that if students were to interact with each other while learning about code, they would be able to understand it more clearly. 
</p>

<br>

<b> What helps me the most in class are (WODs, Labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, one on one help, working with classmates, etc.): </b>
<p>
  What helped me the most were the screencats, the W3schools, the quizzes, one on one help, and working with classmates. For the screencasts, quizzess, and W3 schools, they work well in helping me reinforce what I learned, I would read from W3 schools, listen to the screencast, and then do the quizzess, the quizzess helped reinforce everything that I know and learned from the screencast and W3 schools, they work well together. The one on one help is wonderful when working on the assignment or when I am stuck on a lab question. Professor Port is always willing to sacrfice his time for his students to help us succeed and improve our knowledge in coding. Additionally, it is great working with classmates because soemtimes I am not sure how a certain code works and my classmates have explaiend to me what I did wrong and how I needed to fix it so it would work properly. My classamates helped me a lot when it came to my labs and assignment 1, they explaiend to me what I did differently and how I had incorrectly coded a line. Working wiht classmates is probably what helped me the most in this class.
</p>
