---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E1 UI Basics Technical Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-09-08
labels:
  - MIS
  - WODs
---

For BrowserHistory1, I had remebered quite a bit of what I needed to do, it took me two tries to properly complete it. The first time I had tried it I had forgotten how to create the table of contents, I had to refer back to the screencast to remember how to do it properly. I had also forgotten how to make it where the hyperlink takes you directly to the subject, for example, when you click on the hyperlink for #Explorer it would redirect you to the internet explorer section, when I had referred back to the screencast, I had realized all I missed was the "#" at the beginning. The 2nd time around I had completed it with an RX time of 12mins. Overall what I reccommend doing for this WOD is to take your time on it and process what you are doing.

For BrowserHistory2, it was a little bit of a shorter butm ore difficult assignment. At first I had a massive brain fart and I had forgotten how to link the CSS to the HTML. I referred back to one of our labs to remember how to do it. Moving on from that, the difficulty I had was finding the link for the font that I needed to use, so what I did was paste the link of the font into my google search tab, so when doing the WOD I could grab it immediately. I completed this in RX time of ~4mins.

For BrowserHistroy3, this was a more in-depth session into CSS, I had a hard time with this one it took me 3 tries, first try compelted around 12mins and second try around 10mins. Furthermore, I would always forget something in the css file whether its a ";" or a spelling mistake in my code. I completed this in RX time of ~6 mins on my thrid try. One advice I have for this WOD is to understand CSS code and use the cheet sheets that Professor Port regarding CSS at the first week of the school year to help you further understand. 

Overall, redoing these WODs have been a really fun and enjoyable experience, I remember struggling a lot on these WODs, going through it again, it feels like a refresher but also I feel like I'm still learning from my mistakes. 
